---
title: "SyDjango #1 2024 (Re-connect)"
date: 2024-02-21
---

**Event**: [SyDjango #1 2024 (Re-connect](https://www.meetup.com/sydjango/events/298539230)

**Location**: Cover Genius

**Date**: February 21st, 2024

**Attendance**: ~35

### Talks

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jeJmQazH3jA?si=M5jw5a218OFz9Dxv" title="YouTube" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen class="w-full my-8"></iframe>

#### What is Django and why is it relevant in 2024? – Rui Da Costa (<a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wxvqZ3Gk8VMaRWrB6mUiMxOC1voc_R-GP52X2p8469w/edit?usp=drive_link" target="_blank">slides</a>)

Django is a free and open-source, Python-based web framework" but it was first released in 2005,
which is ancient in comparison to many current web frameworks. But why then is it the most popular
Web Framework for Python Developers? Maybe it's just because Python, the programming lingua franca
of industry is slow to change?

According to the 2023 Stack Overflow survey only 11% of developers use it, but that still puts it
alongside Flask, WordPress, ASP.NET and Spring, and significantly ahead of Laravel and FastAPI.
Seek.com.au also has a similar number of positions open in Sydney for Django as ASP.NET, NodeJS and
Flask.

So why would you choose an 18-year-old framework for your startup, scaleup or enterprise? Come
listen and talk with us at SyDjango's reboot and maybe you'll get some idea of why we love it AND we
get paid to use it at companies of all sizes and with very different use-cases.

#### Concurrency in Python and Django – Hashim Muqtadir (<a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/10fXf40SOgZRVBaN3eLb3vPLuFxLwoc0v/view?usp=drive_link" target="_blank">slides</a>, <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/17VUKo-7g4Vm7Zj_Jqpk6OHaDIMMHGz_V/view?usp=drive_link" target="_blank">source code</a>)

While Python has had tremendous success in making simple things easy and hard things possible,
managing concurrency is one area where there has historically been a lot of confusion. GIL too
limiting? Greenlets too magical? Threads too dangerous? Processes too slow? Function colors too
divisive? What's an engineer to do? Misconceptions surrounding concurrency in Python even led people
to think they need to switch languages to effectively manage it. Thankfully, hard work by projects
like Django have shown that this is completely achievable in modern Python, without sacrificing the
Zen of Python. Let's learn about leveraging concurrency facilities effectively in Python and Django.

#### 10(8) Simple Techniques to Make Your DRF API Faster - Artem Kolesnikov ([slides](https://slides.city2code.com/django-drf-performance))

Performance is crucial for the success of any web application, and Django Rest Framework (DRF) is no
exception. In my presentation I will speak about 10 simple yet powerful techniques that my team used
to optimise performance of a big fat DRF application the team has been working on for a several
years. I will try to maximise the practical value of the talk by skipping complex strategies and
focusing on those techniques that could give you good results with relatively small effort.
