---
title: "SyDjango #2"
date: 2024-05-15
---

We look forward to see you all again at
[SyDjango #2 2024](https://www.meetup.com/sydjango/events/300006733) event that will take place on
May 15th.

### Address

L19, **45 Clarence Street**, Sydney 2000 (**Cover Genius**), near **Wynyard** Train Station

- The lifts are opened until 6pm. If you arrive later please message us on Slack.
- There is no security gates downstairs, but the building management requires Cover Genius to
  provide the list of after-hour guests, thus we need you to complete the
  [registration form](https://forms.gle/PHvg3TnD3u78WPZC9) on arrival (or in advance).

### Schedule

17:00 Doors opened. Networking, pizza and drinks provided. (Thanks, Cover Genius!). 17:45 Talks
start. 19:30 Talks end. More networking. 20:00 Event ends.

### Talks

#### Cloud Native Django with OpenTelemetry and OpenFeature – Federico Bond

As software systems grow in size and complexity, it’s more important than ever to understand and
rein in their behaviour in production. This talk introduces OpenTelemetry and OpenFeature to Django
developers, two fast-rising projects incubated by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation.

We’ll discuss the foundations of the modern observability stack and how robust feature management
can bring superpowers to a team and accelerate the development and operation of Django-based
software systems.

#### Managing Celery workers in Kubernetes - Asanka Dewage

This is a journey of how we optimised our celery worker deployment within the Kubernetes cluster to
minimise resource usage.

#### HTMX all the things – Iqbal Bhatti

Modern applications contain a lot of moving parts to enable interactivity. That in turn breeds
complexity in the tool-sets that we use. HTMX is a clean and refreshing way of creating interactive
apps (think ajax, websockets, etc) most of the app sitting on the back-end and the front end is just
HTML sprinkled with a few magic attributes. \r\n\r\nIn this talk we'll have a quick dive into the
what HTMX is followed by the mechanics and a small demo so that you too can build fast and validate.
